One question asked is in a nutshell,
what is the difference between
a service in an actor?
The X term service to mean a machine
that's interpreted in made into an actor.
So, really, there is no difference
between a service and an actor right now.
A service and an actor are both things
where you could send events to.
They could spawn other actors,
they could change their own behavior
based on what events comes in.
And an interesting bit of trivia is that
the actor model came into X state later.
And so before the actor model,
we just called things services.
And that's because that's what SC XML
called, the things that were or
the the interpreted machines and
the things that are invoked.
However, they are exactly the same thing.
And so when we rewrite the documentation
and we move on to version five,
that terminology is going
to be consolidated.
But yeah, a service is an actor.
And you could just think of services
as actors with state machine behavior.
Someone asked can you repeat
the difference between spawn and invoke?
So when you invoke an actor,
that actor is alive for
the duration of what state it's in.
We service in the example over here,
where this audio actor is only
alive while we're in the ready
state which is playing or paused.
When we skip, that actor gets disposed and
then when we go back to the ready state,
we have a brand new actor.
When you spawn an actor, that actor is
alive until the machine itself is stopped.
And so you could also manually
stop in a spawned actor.
But essentially they're both just actors.
It's just one has a different
life cycle than the other one.
Now the use case of where you will
want to spawn an actor which again I
encourage you to read up on it.
In the state documentation versus
invoking an actor is when you need
a dynamic number of actors.
For example,
let's say that we have a playlist machine.
And the playlist spawns
dynamically a number of actors and
each of these actors are song actors.
So we have song, song, song.
This would be a good candidate for
spawning actors because invocations
are all about, like there being one or
a finite number.
A predetermined number of
actors that represents what's
happening in the current states.
For these spawn actors,
they're not directly tied to a state and
there could be just
a dynamic number of them.
So we could read from context and
be like, okay, I have our playlist.
We need to spawn the song actor for
each one of these and
send events to them individually.
That would be a use case for spawned
actors which are not tied to a state.
Is it possible to send in events
from outside any machine if we
know the actors ID?
so in general no you cannot do that you
need a reference to the actor itself.
Thankfully, you can can't have
a reference to that actor from from here.
So I'm actually gonna type service.
Actually, you know what, let's pause this.
And let's actually grab it just so
I could show you.
Let's see we have window that service.
Okay, yeah, so
I'm gonna say service.subscribe.
Or actually let's just log and see.
So service.subscribe, state and
we're going to console.log the state.
So this date has a property
called children.
In this these children,
each one of these is the invoked actor.
So we have an audio actor and
it has a simple interface,
just like we built with get snapshot.
We have sent, we have subscribe,
we have the idea of it,
and so you can access this directly and
just send it's stuff.
So actually, this is interesting.
So right now,
we are in the past states but
what I could do is if I get
direct access to this states.
I could say temp1.children.audio.send,
and I could send it a play events.
And so now even though I'm in
the past date, it is playing.
And so this just goes to show you.
Obviously, this should be in
the impossible state the song should not
be playing.
Sorry, impossible behavior,
because the song should not be playing
while we're in the pause state.
And the reason this happened
is because as a human hacker
directly got access to that actor.
And I sort of sent it information and I
told it what to do outside of the parents.
So that's like if you again think of
this in terms of humans it's like your
manager telling you what to do but then
someone completely outside the company
sneaking into the company and
being like hey you should do this instead.
So, obviously that's going
to cause some problems.
And that's why you shouldn't be just
randomly sending actors events.
You should be doing so
in a controlled way.
So I could pause it.
Yeah, so you see what happens when
we have direct access to an actor or
try to access an actor directly when it's
not part of the system that we created.
Can I have two separately created machines
interact with each other as actors?
And so the problem with that is that
if you have, let's say, a machine here,
in the machine here, they have no
way of knowing about each other.
You need some sort of glue layer
on top of here that sort of knows
about both machines and can Past
events back and forth between them.
But that becomes an implicit
way of modeling that.
So instead it's recommended that you have
a parent's machine or a parent's actor.
However, you want to implement
it in this parents actor.
Is responsible for
spawning both machines and
then what it could do is
when it spawns the machine.
This parent machine can send
a reference to this actor.
So if I give this a blue background and
this machine or this actor, sort of sense,
a reference to that actor as a message
then let's lower the opacity.
Then now this actor can talk to that
actor directly because this parents actor
told it about that sibling actor so
that's sort of one way of modelling it.
Another way is that you can have this
sending events to the parents and
make that full.
And so that parents can routes
that events to the other actor and
so this parents essentially
becomes a router.